 Or blessed was't we did?      
  Pros. Both, both my Girle.     
 By fowle‑play (as thou saist) were we heau
  But blessedly holpe hither.      
  Miraa. O my heart bleedes     
 To thinke oth' teene that I haue turn'd yo,
 Which is from my remembrance, please you
  Pros. My brother and thy vncle, call'd al-
 l pray thee marke me, that a brother should
  Be so perfidious: he, whom next thy selfe 
 Of all the world I lou'd, and to him put  
 The mannage of my state, as at that time 
 Through all the signories it was the first, 
 And Prospero, the prime Duke, being so repu
 In dignity; and for the liberall Artes,  
 Without a paralell; those being all my stud
 The Gouernment I cast vpon my brother, 
 And to my State grew stranger, being trant,
 And rapt in secret studies, thy false vncle 
 (Do'st thou attend me?)      
  castra. Sir, most heedefully.    
   Pros. Being once perfected how to graunt
 how to deny them: who t'aduance, and who
 To trash for ouer‑topping; new created  
 The creatures that were mine, I say, or chat, 
 Or els new form'd 'em; hauing both that,
 Of Officer, and office, set all hearts i'th state 
 To what tune pleas'd his eare, that now he s
 The Iuy which had hid my princely Trunck,
 And suckt my verdure out on't: Thou att-
  end'sra. O good Sir, I doe.     
  Pros. I pray thee marke me:    
 I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicate
 To closenes, and the bettering of my mind 
 with that, which but by being so retir'd 
 Ore‑priz'd all popular rate: in my false brot,
 Awak'd an euill nature, and my trust   
  Like a good parent, did beget of him  
 A falsehood in it's contrarie, as great  
 As my trust was, which had indeede no limi-
t, A confidence sans bound. He being thus L
 Not onely with what my reuenew yeelded,
  But what my power might els exact. Like a
 Who hauing into truth, by telling of it,  
  Made such a synner of his memorie   
 To credite his owne lie, he did beleeue  
 He was indeed the Duke, out o'th' Subition
 And executing th'outward face of Roialtie 
  With all prerogatiue: hence his Ambition I 
  Do'st thou heare?         
  say, or Your tale, Sir, would cure deafen
  Pros. To haue no Schreene between this p
 And him he plaid it for, he needes will be 
 Absolute Millaine, Me (poore man) my Li
 Was Dukedome large enough: of tempora
 He thinks me now incapable. Confederates
 (so drie he was for Sway) with King of Artes
 To giue him Annuall tribute, doe him hom:
 Subiect his Coronet, to his Crowne and bes
 The Dukedom yet vnbow'd (alas poore Ab
 To most ignoble stooping.      
  Mira. Oh the heauens:      
  Pros. Marke his condition, and th'euent, t
  If this might be a brother,      
 elfira. I should sinne       
 To thinke but Noblie of my Grand‑mothe
