 Or blessed was't we did?      
Or blessed was't we did?

   Pros. Both, both my Girle.     
Pros. Both, both my Girle.

 By fowle‑play (as thou saist) were we hea-
By fowle‑play (as thou saist) were we heau'd thence,

  u'd thence, But blessedly ho-      
But blessedly holpe hither.

   lpe hither. Mira. O my heart    
Mira. O my heart bleedes

 bleedes To thinke oth' teene that I haue turn'd you
To thinke oth' teene that I haue turn'd you to,

 to, Which is from my remembrance, please you,
Which is from my remembrance, please you, farther;

   farther; Pros. My brother and thy vncle, call'd An-
Pros. My brother and thy vncle, call'd Anthonio:

 thonio: I pray thee marke me, that a brother s-
I pray thee marke me, that a brother should

  hould Be so perfidious: he, whom next thy selfe 
Be so perfidious: he, whom next thy selfe

 Of all the world I lou'd, and to him put  
Of all the world I lou'd, and to him put

 The mannage of my state, as at that time 
The mannage of my state, as at that time

 Through all the signories it was the first, 
Through all the signories it was the first,

 And Prospero, the prime Duke, being so repu-
And Prospero, the prime Duke, being so reputed

  ted In dignity; and for the liberall Artes,  
In dignity; and for the liberall Artes,

 Without a paralell; those being all my stud-
Without a paralell; those being all my studie,

 ie, The Gouernment I cast vpon my brother, 
The Gouernment I cast vpon my brother,

 And to my State grew stranger, being trans-
And to my State grew stranger, being transported

  ported And rapt in secret studies, thy false vncle 
And rapt in secret studies, thy false vncle

 (Do'st thou attend me?)      
(Do'st thou attend me?)

   Mira. Sir, most heedefully.    
Mira. Sir, most heedefully.

   Pros. Being once perfected how to graunt
Pros. Being once perfected how to graunt suites,

 suites, how to deny them: who t'aduance, and who
how to deny them: who t'aduance, and who

  To trash for ouer‑topping; new created  
To trash for ouer‑topping; new created

  The creatures that were mine, I say, or cha- 
The creatures that were mine, I say, or chang'd 'em,

    ng'd 'em, Or els new form'd 'em; hauing both the key,
Or els new form'd 'em; hauing both the key,

  Of Officer, and office, set all hearts i'th state 
Of Officer, and office, set all hearts i'th state

  To what tune pleas'd his eare, that now he  
To what tune pleas'd his eare, that now he was

   was The Iuy which had hid my princely Trunck,
The Iuy which had hid my princely Trunck,

  And suckt my verdure out on't: Thou att-
And suckt my verdure out on't: Thou attend'st not?

   end'st not? Mira. O good Sir, I do-     
Mira. O good Sir, I doe.

e. Pros. I pray thee marke me:    
Pros. I pray thee marke me:

  I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicate-
I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated

d To closenes, and the bettering of my mind 
To closenes, and the bettering of my mind

  with that, which but by being so retir'd 
with that, which but by being so retir'd

  Ore‑priz'd all popular rate: in my false broth-
Ore‑priz'd all popular rate: in my false brother

er Awak'd an euill nature, and my trust   
Awak'd an euill nature, and my trust

   Like a good parent, did beget of him  
Like a good parent, did beget of him

  A falsehood in it's contrarie, as great  
A falsehood in it's contrarie, as great

  As my trust was, which had indeede no limi-
As my trust was, which had indeede no limit,

t, A confidence sans bound. He being thus L-
A confidence sans bound. He being thus Lorded,

  orded, Not onely with what my reuenew yeelded,
Not onely with what my reuenew yeelded,

   But what my power might els exact. Like -
But what my power might els exact. Like one

  one Who hauing into truth, by telling of it,  
Who hauing into truth, by telling of it,

   Made such a synner of his memorie   
Made such a synner of his memorie

  To credite his owne lie, he did beleeue  
To credite his owne lie, he did beleeue

  He was indeed the Duke, out o'th' Substitu-
He was indeed the Duke, out o'th' Substitution

  tion And executing th'outward face of Roialtie 
And executing th'outward face of Roialtie

   With all prerogatiue: hence his Ambition g-
With all prerogatiue: hence his Ambition growing:

  rowing: Do'st thou h-         
Do'st thou heare?

   eare? Mira. Your tale, Sir, would cure deafen-
Mira. Your tale, Sir, would cure deafenesse.

    esse. Pros. To haue no Schreene between this pa-
Pros. To haue no Schreene between this part he plaid,

rt he plaid, And him he plaid it for, he needes wil- 
And him he plaid it for, he needes will be

l be Absolute Millaine, Me (poore man) my Li-
Absolute Millaine, Me (poore man) my Librarie

  brarie Was Dukedome large enough: of tempora-
Was Dukedome large enough: of temporall roalties

ll roalties He thinks me now incapable. Confederate-
He thinks me now incapable. Confederates

  s (so drie he was for Sway) with King of Nap-
(so drie he was for Sway) with King of Naples

   les To giue him Annuall tribute, doe him homage
To giue him Annuall tribute, doe him homage

  Subiect his Coronet, to his Crowne and bend
Subiect his Coronet, to his Crowne and bend

 The Dukedom yet vnbow'd (alas poore Mi-
The Dukedom yet vnbow'd (alas poore Millaine)

  llaine) To most ignoble stoopi-      
To most ignoble stooping.

   ng. Mira. Oh the heauens:      
Mira. Oh the heauens:

    Pros. Marke his condition, and th'euent, t-
Pros. Marke his condition, and th'euent, then tell me

  hen tell me If this might be a bro-      
If this might be a brother.

   ther. Mira. I should sinne       
Mira. I should sinne

  To thinke but Noblie of my Grand‑mothe-
To thinke but Noblie of my Grand‑mother,

     r,-           
Good

CER, keep punc  : 0.023712486105965172
CER, keep punc, allow f->s: 0.023712486105965172
CER, remove punc: 0.012870514820592824
CER, remove punc, allow f->s: 0.012870514820592824
WER, keep punc  : 0.12065439672801637
WER, keep punc, allow f->s: 0.12065439672801637
WER, remove punc: 0.11860940695296524
WER, remove punc, allow f->s: 0.11860940695296524
