Or blessed vas't we did?
Pros. Both, both my Girle.
By fowle‑play (as thou saist) were we heau'd thence,
But blessedly holpe hither.
Mira. O my heart bleedes
To thinke oth' teene that I haue turn'd you to,
Which is from my remembrance, please you, farther;
Pros. My brother and thy vncle, call'd Anthonio:
I pray thee marke me, that a brother should
Be so perfidious: he, vhom next thy selfe
Of all the vorld I lou'd, and to him put
The mannage of my state, as at that time
Through all the signories it vas the first,
And Prospero, the prime Duke, being so reputed
In dignity; and for the liberall Artes,
vithout a paralell; those being all my studie,
The Gouernment I cast vpon my brother,
And to my State grev stranger, being transported
And rapt in secret studies, thy false vncle
(Do'st thou attend me?)
Mira. Sir, most heedefully.
Pros. Being once perfected how to graunt suites,
how to deny them: who t'aduance, and who
To trash for ouer‑topping; nev created
The creatures that vere mine, I say, or chang'd 'em,
Or els nev form'd 'em; hauing both the key,
Of Officer, and office, set all hearts i'th state
To vhat tune pleas'd his eare, that now he vas
The Iuy which had hid my princely Trunck,
And suckt my verdure out on't: Thou attend'st not?
Mira. O good Sir, I doe.
Pros. I pray thee marke me:
I thus neglecting vorldly ends, all dedicated
To closenes, and the bettering of my mind
with that, vhich but by being so retir'd
Ore‑priz'd all popular rate: in my false brother
Awak'd an euill nature, and my trust
Like a good parent, did beget of him
A falsehood in it's contrarie, as great
As my trust was, vhich had indeede no limit,
A confidence sans bound. He being thus Lorded,
Not onely with what my reuenew yeelded,
But vhat my power might els exact. Like one
Who hauing into truth, by telling of it,
Made such a synner of his memorie
To credite his owne lie, he did beleeue
He vas indeed the Duke, out o'th' Substitution
And executing th'outvard face of Roialtie
vith all prerogatiue: hence his Ambition groving:
Do'st thou heare?
Mira. Your tale, Sir, would cure deafenesse.
Pros. To haue no Schreene between this part he plaid,
And him he plaid it for, he needes vill be
Absolute Millaine, Me (poore man) my Librarie
vas Dukedome large enough: of temporall roalties
He thinks me nov incapable. Confederates
(so drie he was for Sway) with King of Naples
To giue him Annuall tribute, doe him homage
Subiect his Coronet, to his Crovne and bend
The Dukedom yet vnbow'd (alas poore Millaine)
To most ignoble stooping.
Mira. Oh the heauens:
Pros. Marke his condition, and th'euent, then tell me
If this might be a brother.
Mira. I should sinne
To thinke but Noblie of my Grand‑mother,
Good